and at this time if you would please
welcome to the stage JD Mankowski good
morning any donuts this morning oh yeah
cool so that's five days in a row right
quite a few calories next week is going
to be working out i'm so i'm here to
talk about third-party collaboration
solutions today and i actually manage
apples a professional services group for
the enterprise and so we do a lot of
integration work and in large
enterprises and so you know definitely
collaboration is a big part of the work
we do in recommendations for for our
customers and i thought it was really
important to kind of review those
enterprise solutions that are available
both on the client side as well as
client server solutions are available
for Mac os10 so we're going to talk a
little bit about it you know give you a
quick market overview and then we'll
talk about some client integration
solutions from Lotus Microsoft and
novell and by the way all those vendors
that we're going to be talking about
today are going to be coming at the end
for Q&A so we'll have a one person from
each company available for Q&A at the
end so let's talk about the
collaboration market you know Gartner
defines this as basically the integrated
collaboration environment ice basically
more than just email and calendar right
collaboration today means you know
instant messaging web conferencing
screen sharing saw collaboration
knowledge management it's way more than
just email and calendaring and Apple has
some answers in some of those areas with
male with i am with i chat with you know
address book and you know we're based on
open standards using ldap technology
imap and pop and we also made some
improvements to integrate better into
the exchange environments as well in our
in our mail application and if you
weren't into you came to my session
yesterday you also saw how with the you
know Active Directory plugin we could
also integrate better into a ad
environment even using ad
book in Safari and getting you know nice
single sign-on type capabilities with
some of our products into those
heterogeneous environments as well and
with ichat moving forward in Tiger as
you all know i will be adding even more
functionality where you can host your
own i chat server back-end solution
which will help further the
collaboration work on the server side we
also are very focused on being
standards-based and so really we did a
big migration you know when we went from
send mail to postfix due to a lot of
feedback from from IT folks that
preferred postfix so we did that so a
lot of people use our servers as postfix
servers on the back end but also people
might use as well and Osiris were
smaller for smaller deployments and and
again that's the cross-platform solution
due to the fact that we support pop IMAP
and some of the and insecure and curve
rose so the mac is a good corporate
citizen and again we talked a lot about
that in the session yesterday where we
fit in very well with you know if it's a
linux or windows back end or you know
solaris back end will fit in really well
as a corporate a good corporate client
but we also you know with the xserve and
the g5 we also are and we have a really
good server solution as well and we'll
talk about some of those on the
collaboration session collaboration
solutions in just a second so let's talk
first about client integration and
really wanted to focus on the top three
vendors that that you know most of you
use in your enterprise around the
education side and thats you know really
lotus microsoft and in novell until
lotus you know using domino microsoft
with exchange in novell with with
groupwise and the first one i wanted to
touch on and you know quickly overview
is I BM Lotus and you know the Lotus
software has evolved tremendously
throughout the year the years and you
know IBM main focus and load of
software's main focus is really enhanced
business values you know reduce cost of
ownership by using open standards
and then of course embracing innovation
and innovation and innovating as quickly
as they can throughout throughout their
product line and another session that
was great this week is also eclipse
which is now a Mac os10 which also helps
getting even more IBM products on the on
the platform due to their eclipse back
in development environment so IBM and
Lotus how they have a product family
that is you know basically based around
notes and domino the Lotus workplace
which is a new segment for IBM they're
up to version 2 dot 0 and their
workplace product brand new product from
from IBM and then WebSphere so really
there's three I know product suites that
are available from from IBM notes and
domino which is very well known
workplace which is their newer suite of
solution again based on standards and
then WebSphere for the the backend
application and web development so today
the version available from notice is
lotus notes 651 which was very well
received by the community and that is
supported against 10 1 and 10 dot 2 and
again this is this product is on par
with the the windows counterparts so
it's pretty much identical to to the
windows version on the road map there's
some really good good stuff coming from
from IBM basically 651 and 665 to which
support 10 dot to this fall they will
release 653 which will be fully
supported against tiger 10 3 and then
lotus has announced that they will
release a version 7 of the domino server
and that'll be in first half of 2005 and
they will also have a newer version of
the clients that will support that which
is right now named lotus notes you know
notes it'll be six five four and some of
the new additions
are being brought over to the mac
platform is the Lotus workplace into the
messaging as well as lotus domino
document manager and load of teamwork
place so really good news from from IBM
as far as you know keeping enhancing
their their product offering on on the
mac side especially on the desktop again
on there that second suite of solutions
that that is available from IBM which is
there a new workplace solution again
they're up to version 20 right now and
with version 25 they will now start
supporting the Macintosh clients through
their web workplace solution using
workplace messaging documents team
collaboration web content management as
well as their collaborative learning
solution and that will be in 2 dot 5
which is in the fall of two thousand
four and later down the road they will
have a full client of the the workplace
technology solution that will be coming
to mac OS 10 you know in the future so
stay tuned on that the two dots i will
be coming on the mac and then any other
significant update will be a full
full-blown client on the macintosh just
quickly on the technical resources from
Lotus software the developerworks page
is a great area to go to to get more
information you know technical
discussion forums beta programs you know
documentation all that stuff is
available through this developerworks
lotus website so for people who are
using Lotus it's just a great reference
for especially for Macintosh support so
that's it for Lotus wanted to talk a
little bit about about Microsoft as well
they are you know widely used on the
Macintosh platform and I want to talk
about exchange and from echo s10
there's three you know great ways to
connect to an exchange back end there's
entourage 2004 which Microsoft just
released was it you know a month ago two
months ago their news on their new
office suites you know very well
received in the in the community great
product for Microsoft and they also have
their remote desktop connection client
which if you came in my session
yesterday we actually demoed great way
to connect through I know to a Windows
terminal service back end and that's
another way for you to to get to you
know a full-blown exchange to actually
use an exchange version their exchange
windows version through our DC and
there's also a virtual pc 6 and soon to
be coming virtual pc 7 on the on mac OS
10 de will support the g5 and so those
are three ways to actually get to to
your exchange server and get your email
and calendaring on the mac OS 9 side of
course you know we've been saying for
many many years you know it's time to
move off the platform but they still
have outlook 2001 for the macintosh
which can run in classic and they have
entourage 2001 which is the the mac OS 9
version of entourage and then web access
of course you know through safari you've
gotta you know really nice experience so
here's a here's a screenshot of that
what actually the Outlook Web Access
looks like when you're actually
connecting and getting your email
through the web with with Safari and
again if you we had a great demo
yesterday where when we were logged into
an active directory back end we got
single sign-on we've got your Kerberos
ticket so you don't have to put any name
and password you just launch Safari
click on your exchange a URL and your
boom you're right into your email you
don't have to type in any name and
password and and that's because Safari
supports spinetto which is the way we
would get in and get to your email
through curve rose so great great
experience great UI on the web access
side a remote desktop connection so with
our DC basically what you're seeing here
is actually the exchange clients the
outlook
exchange client on Windows and basically
through our DC on the Macintosh you can
actually run the exchange the the
outlook version on the Macintosh through
our DC what some of the improvements
that Microsoft has brought to to the
table with entourage 2004
synchronization of email calendaring and
address book via webdav so they're not
using imap or smtp anymore they're using
webdav so you know when 2000 when
entourage 2001 came out IT people had to
turn on smtp and imap to support the max
and now you don't have to do that
anymore basically it's all done through
through webdav they have scheduling they
have searchable global address list
which is new so you have auto completion
when you start looking for you know
contacts and you're on your back end
you've got forms-based authentication
support core delegate access support for
delegation and they've got a really nice
UI and that's a Mac os10 only product
here's a screenshot of the entourage
2004 client and in this screenshot you
actually see their new support for free
busy as well so you can actually look at
you know multiple people's calendaring
send sending invites and multiple people
and kind of see the availability and
pick and pick that hour of meaning that
you want with with those those five
people here on the server side what is
required to actually have this outlook
2004 klein connect you need exchange
2000 with a minimum of service pack 2
that's that's pretty much a no-brainer
Outlook Web Access must be installed and
enabled of course and webdav needs to be
turned on as well as ldap and that's
that's pretty much it so again you know
microsoft is very committed to to the
Macintosh platform and they've been
they've been throughout throughout the
years and you know a great example of
that is is when entourage 2000
one came out there was some limitations
and they actually in the middle of the
year they had a really great update that
fixed a lot of issues and connectivity
to the back end and again even with 2004
they are also committed to improve the
product moving forward so again we're
very happy with with the way the
exchange integration and the the
entourage 2004 climb is looking is
looking on the Macintosh and for Mac OS
10 some of the resources to help you if
you're having some issues connecting you
know there's some great resources on
their website if you go to microsoft com
/ exchange or you go to microsoft com /
mac or there's also some great
discussion boards around exchange
connectivity with entourage 2004 that
are available so let's talk a little bit
about Novell and novell has this the one
net vision and what the one that vision
is is you've got the novell engaged
module which is basically their
consulting services you've got Novell
extend which is there are their web
services in sure which is their secure
identity management solution and you've
got Novell enterprise that is basically
comprised of a groupwise you know Zen
works and the suse linux addition when
they window they'll purchased SUSE Linux
so that's kind of the four modules that
comprise the novell one ad vision and
we're going to focus a lot on groupwise
today because that's a people have been
very excited with the relief of 65 on
the Macintosh great Java release on the
mac supports you know secure email into
messaging scheduling contact management
task management and this is available
today on Mac OS 10 3 and again it's a
cross-platform client you know supports
caching shared folders proxy access
archiving all done in a secure way
through openssl
a multi-party conversation you know
real-time contact lists they also have
their their IM clients that's pretty
neat that has you know customizable text
so forth and so on they also have access
through the web so web access through
groupwise web access client and then
novell understands they're still there
are still a few limitations in the 65
product but they're very hard at work
and adding some some us some new
features like spell checking rules
anti-spam control category support
document management improved contact
management as well as imap pop3 support
so we've got the 65 release which is
which is really really good and this is
kind of a preview of what they'll be
shipping you know coming in the next few
months with with groupwise a couple of
other ones that are pretty key personal
conversation archiving on the IM side
chat rooms message broadcasting style
transfers and then improve server load
balancing as well as I manager console
integration so that will all be part of
the next generation product on there i
am side some of the novell resources
that are available you've got the novell
product page cool solutions success
stories as well as you know will be
available for discussions in rit lab so
that's kind of a quick update on the
client side form from those top three
vendors and now I wanted to talk as well
about server deployments and about
solutions that are that are not only
client but i also have a server
component that runs on mac OS 10 and
there are three solutions that we wanted
to focus on today on the client server
side and the first one is cario and the
second one its first class and then
stalker with communicate
so let's touch on touch base on cario
first so cario has been around the Mac
community for you know probably four or
five years now and they target small to
a medium sized business and they've got
over 3,500 customers and over 200,000
mailboxes they're based in California
and again one of the really nice
features that's interesting is if you
even if you download the curio software
as an eval you already get technical
support which is kind of kind of
interesting so free technical support
when you download the software right now
they are in the process of releasing
their version 6 of their product which
which has not only has email but also
has great calendaring support so this
was announced I believe this week and it
will be shipping later this month so
it's really a complete solution for Mac
OS 10 it supports shared contacts full
calendaring support using the entourage
10 or the entourage 2004 client for
Microsoft they also have a great webmail
interface and they also support outlook
client on the on the pc side using a
mapi connector of course they support
pop and IMAP as well so you can use mail
app or some or pretty much any other
client that supports pop and IMAP they
have full antivirus support from mcafee
and again their webmail support is with
I e on windows and Safari on the Mac
their administration is actually pretty
very very nice they're actually using
cutie cutie lib and that gives you a
seamless admin interface which is
identical both on linux on windows and
on the and on the macintosh so they've
done a lot of work they also integrate
fully with active directory from the
directory side or open directory so that
really allows you to keep your directory
backend and install cario on you on the
male side and basically migrate from
xchange 55 or 2000 Oh
or two to the kaerios server and again
this is a small to medium sized solution
so they've got webmail support on safari
like I said really nice looking feel
they even have drag-and-drop support and
their web interface which is kind of
kind of neat they've got junk mail
filter as well available through the web
interface and again entourage full
entourage support including email and
calendaring on the mac side as well as
outlook on the pc side you know one of
the customers they have which is based
in california we thought it would be
good to talk since we're in California
bring up Davis Ellen advertising and
they have about a we've got about a
hundred fifty employees to IT people and
they're running carry on the backend for
their windows and their mac users
carrier resources you know you can move
our website curio com again they have a
knowledge base and then if you want any
information on the product info at Kyra
calm and again like I said version 6 is
in beta right now you can download it
free eval and free technical support
open text so quick overview of open text
corporate overview they have about over
20 million users you know there we've
got over a million user new users per
year over 2,000 employees and 35
countries and they've got two products
first class and live link so first class
has been around for quite some time for
those of you who remember those days of
the telephone durand BBS servers but
it's been it's evolved tremendously
throughout the years they just shipped
their version eight of the first class
product which basically supports email
voicemail you know fax mail calendaring
contact instant messaging web publishing
and file sharing it actually ties right
into your phone system and basically you
could get your your phone messages
through email as audio attachment so
it's pretty neat solution you know very
tightly integrated
cross-platform very scalable their
version 8 was released in june two
thousand four and there again the
servers they support are both on mac OS
10 + n on Windows and they've done
extensive testing with xserve and extra
raid so again it just keeps via the
price of the entire solution you know
affordable very affordable with our with
our backend servers of course they fully
integrate with lv three and they've got
a single server for male news and
calendaring this is that you know a
quick screenshot up their their UI and
again they support mac OS 10 mac OS 9
windows linux and against safari and I e
on the website as well as opera version
8 is a it's a major milestone for first
class if they have a lot of new
enhancements around security they even
have s/mime support which is which is
great for security and they have they've
added even a directory services module
and they also have into messaging as
well as presence management in version 8
so those are kind of the new new
features that are available in the first
class server here's a sample of some of
the customers that use first class today
so you can see there's quite a wide
variety on the education side as well as
the as on the business side so if you
want any information George Matthews
again from from open text will be here
and again will be available for Q&A
later on stalker
so stalker software overviews with
stalkers are a well known for their
product communicate you know it they're
very committed to the mac platform they
target mainly enterprise education
telcos and very large ISP so it's a very
scalable email email server solution
they have over eight thousand customers
52 million active users throughout the
world or based in California but they
also have some offices in Europe and
stock has been supported them the
macintosh over over 10 years now and
they have over 1600 customers that are
running communicate crow on the max they
are very focused on on standard based
solutions using smtp pop and imap
directory services mailing list
calendaring and scheduling real-time
communication all that stuff is
basically part of the part of the
package as well as spam and antivirus
protection and they've got a pretty neat
web interface to manage the entire
system so the whole management is done
through the web interface here's an
example of the basically the backend
server again in Safari and how you would
basically manage your pop clients or
IMAP client or LDAP clients and that's
kind of the log some of their logging
mechanisms to basically manage and
maintain the maintain the server what's
also very interesting about the product
is that it basically runs because of its
UNIX foundation it runs on over 30
platforms which is pretty pretty
interesting and shows our commitment I
mean it goes all the way back to even
see runs on the as400 which is this is
interesting
on the supported client side you can see
that basically they have calendaring
support through ical and Safari they
also support entourage for pop and on
the pc side they have this exchange
connector as well and they can actually
replace an exchange server as well and
and use outlook through am at the
connector an apple mail on the on the
IMAP side and the awful support palm
devices and you know basically
interesting product to migrate from
exchange as well on the on the community
a product there's some customers that
are available or that use actually the
communicate product again you know wide
variety of them from from education and
on the business side as well again very
scalable very scalable solution here's
some documentation from from soccer
collaterals you can as well download
their software you know either they have
a valve software available as well
technical support and here's some
information if you if you want to
contact from one from stalker Alex lip
rot and a number and email at the bottom
here
so quick wrap-up on the client side
we've got a pretty good solution from
Lotus Microsoft and novell great
collaboration solutions from those three
vendors and again on the if you're
looking for a solution that also would
allow you to run a server solution on
Mac OS 10 we've got three products from
cario first class and stalker that are
available and that our cross platform on
the client side but have a you know
pre-need server solution are running on
our platform so what I want to do for
for QA we've got plenty of time for Q&A
is bring up our panelists from IBM we
have Brendan crotty from Microsoft we
have dennis chung from novell we have
Mike McDonald James new delhi from
cario technology George Matthews from
opentext and Phillips later from stalker
thank
[Applause]
microphones are working we're going to
take Galaxy once you guys share the
microphone here you're perfect and we'll
take the first and please introduce your
name company and are your questions
thank you yes Luis donofrio from
University of Michigan this may not be
the right form not sure if it's going to
be but do you know if there's going to
be any more ical to exchange
integrations or is this not the right
one day be asking that with no not
really and then my other question would
be for the stalker guy um do I need MS
cowles when using stalker with the map
your connector or can I just you know
just use your product and just get more
licenses to using with it with a el book
client would ya now you just need the
Matta connector well I'm in the cows I'm
talking about licensing how many do I
need to have a cow's to Microsoft or
address steward you're probably licensed
through soccer for the mapping connector
which is based on the total number of
concurrent connections so that's a yes
that is the end Josh I think some
stalker I'll food from Stockholm okay
thank you on the right side hi i'm john
mcneill with Isis pharmaceuticals we're
a note shop I was wondering if we're
going to see i know'd support for safari
in the future I'll take this one so lamb
there's been a lot of them conversation
there's the open lab you know six months
around what we're going to do around I
know or it's now renamed to Domino web
access formerly known as I know
and so right now there's certain
limitations you know when we looked at
this specifically the beginning of the
year and the Safari browser specifically
run support for the HTML and which we're
working with Apple in order to be able
to resolve so within our whole portfolio
you heard JD talk of at Lotus workplace
you mean Domino is part of workplace
we're coming out with a lot of new
technologies which are going to
encompass a lot of our solutions into
lotus workplace so one of the things
that we're looking to do is we're coming
out with what we call right now a common
male cns portlet that will go against
the Domino back-end and NSF file or the
Lotus work text messaging back end which
is a db2 back-end and as we move forward
with this solution and technology we're
going to look to support is that
solution on the Mac versus that Domino
web access so you mean you can look to
see the support over the next you know
six to twelve month on the back Jordan
Winkleman from Latin l4 klassen
associates this is a question directed
towards microsoft two parts number one
is there ever any intent to have a
native nappy client for mac OS 10 so the
answer to that question is that answer
on me microsoft entourage is the
solution that we're pursuing moving
forwards as connectivity with exchange
really it's not about technology the
protocol that people want it's really
the user scenarios that you want to be
able to function in an exchange
environment and we're going to move
forward to making entourage a preferred
choice okay and second is there ever
going to be any resource scheduling such
as you could do in Outlook 2001 or on
the native windows client so that you
can actually schedule like conference
rooms and projectors and that kind of
stuff at this point we can do free busy
for other people but that's something
we're in current
feature request great thanks please for
the microphone appreciate it Phillip
flower from Landor associates I have a
had all those questions but one more is
are you this is for Microsoft are you
going to support in a future version of
entourage 2004 or whatever dot PSD
support so that we can move people from
our 2001 that's a great question it's a
feedback that we've heard a lot recently
especially since we've watched entourage
2004 that's also something that's
currently under investigation so for a
lot be feedback about that thanks thank
you my name is Jason pro from University
of Iowa I have several questions so I'll
ask adjust a few no other people ask
this is for Microsoft we're currently
moving 50,000 user accounts over to
exchange however we're having some
issues with entourage 2004 some of them
are public folder support there is no
full public folder support in Entourage
2004 that's a way how we passed out
calendars to people and have people get
things the other second question is at
what web access has substantial loss of
functionality such as searching for
email messages the question is hotmail
works fine with any browser and so
performances a lot better why why is it
the Nakba second classes nor any other
browser second closest and when using
outlook web access sure so first
question actually entourage 2004 one of
the highlights the fact that does have
public folder support and I use it at I
happen to be in Matthew jodha exchange
environment as well as presently and
yeah i mean we actually do you public
folders so maybe i'll take that offline
incoming we can delve into why i might
not be working for you as for the apple
globe accesses story currently we
provide the exchange server system
provides users technologies that are not
available in safari as yet but as you
know we've seen at this conference
safari something that apple's dedicated
to working on
so that may change the teacher okay
we're going to take a question yeah
Bryant Drescher from the LDS Church
curriculum department just a couple
comments and questions about groupwise
we've just been recently using that
groupwise client there from novell and
we're really pretty happy with it we're
glad to hear that you're putting in some
notify support we've got people you
right now running the old notifying
classic so they can get notified of
their messages so that's the sooner you
can get that the better we have noticed
a little bit of problems with stability
and we hope that's one of the things
you're working on and one of the things
we've specifically noticed about
stability is it have some problems
dealing with PostScript fonts if there's
a postscript kind of font and it's
expecting a true type font it seems to
not like that so just a little bit of
feedback on that thanks on the back hi
I'm Mike dhaliwal from Loyola press I've
got a question for Microsoft we're
currently migrating from exchange 2002
2003 and I'm wondering with the
entourage 2004 which was it's a great
client so far when we can expect
Kerberos support for the client again
that's something that's also under
investigation we yeah actually I went to
some sessions on curb roast and the
apples doing a lot of great work on then
so we look forward to working with apple
and I'm the future thank you thank you
for feedback back over there hi Matt
Gracie from canisius college um we tend
to pick really bad technology so right
now we're standardized on corporate time
by Stelter they were recently bought out
by Oracle and now we can't even find
anyone there who sell its more licenses
so we're kind of looking to migrate um
now I'm sorry I have to disqualify
Microsoft from the question because our
network guys are rapidly anti you it's
nothing personal but can anyone else
import corporate time stuff so I can
transition by users
I'm actually not familiar with that
evolution we are support people here
typically help you move any type of
standardized text mail formats if it's
dotty email files for example and you
might've heard that we do support
directory services so we can import the
ldap if you have users and some kind of
an ldap database you could probably help
me do that as well it's not really a
user thing it's more of a it's only a
calendaring solution so I'm trying to
get this stuff out of that which is it's
not a solution it's only a calendaring
problem there's any if there's any way
you can use some kind of thinking device
I don't know corporate time support on
or yet it's something that's the only
way that we've seen mackerras so
basically use your palm think your
calendaring over to your palm and then
basically upload it back to whatever
solution you pick okay I was hoping to
avoid that but thanks yeah thank you not
easy front okay Jason fell again from
University of Iowa with the entourage
client it seems that Microsoft is
keeping things separate from the system
such as like the address book is
separate from the one that's integrated
the operating system I noticed that the
ssl certificates are setting out the SS
elves to get both personal signature
certificates are stored in a separate
key chain file rather than the user's
own keychain file and it's not reading
the key chains or sorry the certificates
from the person's keychains file you
have to go through the client and toward
it just automatically detected like mail
and there's also no way to edit suicide
rules so is that something that you guys
I guess you guys are always looking to
investigate things but I mean is that
something that you definitely are going
to be working on well actually the so
let me take on the first one about the
system lot of innovation of the address
book actually one of the sessions I plan
on attending this afternoon and you'll
probably see me there is about the sync
services one that's putting your pretty
exciting my opinion and so again it's
under investigation this thing is good
but can you use it because you should
just be able to use the address book
framework and not have to sync between
two different data stores you should
just be able to use the address book
right oh yeah but I think services is
what we're
we need to be investigating in future as
for the certificates thing i'll have to
pick it off why I'm not go to similar
sad but um and your third point was
surfside rules Oh server-side rules I
don't believe you can modify those in
outlook web access and so because of
that we now know if you're familiar how
entourage is actually communicating
fluid exchange it actually uses web dev
01 users and since that's not
particularly exposed that's something we
can't for limited right now but exchange
of exchange team is committed and moving
forwards with webdav compatibility so
it's something that might be possible in
the future okay a lot of sites would
like to see mapi support even though we
don't like nappy but that's the
preferred way to connect through outlook
so we'd really like to see that happen
sure thank you yes though it's 930 from
University of Michigan again can I ask
you a question for the microsoft guy
there how do you handle no reliance on
the owa backend for exchange support our
native mapi for OSX well that's not too
well we rely on web casts so I mean
basically yeah but it's a joke it's like
it's a different way to package your
browser I mean like or scheduling a
meeting you're just making the webdav
calls we want to find out from you when
there's going to be no reliance on the
web dev back end well being that we're
not playing to pursue mapi I mean we are
going to continue slept out in the
future that I mean except we worked with
Microsoft Exchange demons you know
that's what they recommend it because
even there to think about moving away
from a fee as well so what gas which is
based on open standards is the way I go
in the future you can't you go back i'm
matt willis eCornell this is to the
stalker folks first thing thank you very
much for such a great product because
it's doing wonderful things for us
and love it I know it's been my question
is the the newer versions that are that
are currently in development with the
ship in voice messaging and that kind of
stuff support will that be able to
integrate with ichat or is that going to
be basically a msn messenger only kind
of feature well we've been in contact
with Apple about getting ichat AV could
be sipped compliance it that way we're
able to provide something for the fluid
10 users and I'm hoping that we get it
since I don't want to have to go from my
desktop to my laptop just to have that
chat functionality okay thank you
frankly hi Joe Jackson Carnegie Mellon
first I thought it followed up on the
corporate I'm comment we're a long time
corporate I'm customer at our university
we have probably about several thousand
users probably five thousand users or so
we actually found the transition to
Oracle with the adoption company to go
quite smoothly so maybe that person who
asked the question before it can find me
I can help them out with the licensing
we certainly were treated pretty well so
you're all using corporate time where
you move yet or Oracle Clark well we've
moved to Oracle calendar there is no
need to adopt all of collaboration suite
they continue to make the product
available basically for previous
customers and panel on if you are moving
away though thinking to a poem would of
course break all of your connections to
other users and that's the point of a
group calendaring solution so I'd
suggest looking into I calendar to make
that migration but but for us we're
still very happy with a with a product
so and a question for the gentleman from
Microsoft wondering if is there
somewhere I can find out what features
are not supported by the entourage 2004
client I would expect to find supported
features pretty readily on the website
but just wondering if there's an easy
way for me to find out what's missing
well actually a good question we're in
the process of updating a lot more
documentation on the website and forget
one I think in the coming days there's
going to be a new doctrine on deploying
entourage 2004 so that you know
definitely go to our website it was a
lot of previous slides but it's
www.microsoft.com/mechanics on working
with exchange servers in Entourage
that's really good resource to start
with but you know do check back because
we are updating in the process of
updating deployment documents and you
know perhaps a lot more questions to be
answered there okay thanks thank you
then yeah hi Alan Sanderson from
Cambridge antibody question for Sokka
songlist slide from stalker that the
entourage is only supported boy on the
slide on targeted pop supported strictly
right now is the standard as pop and
imap though it is capable of recognizing
ICS files for invite but right now the
calendar aspect is not tied into the
clinical calendar on the community a pro
server yeah i just want me because we've
been using stalker that 10 years 12
years of something great product but
recently when we started using an
entourage of 10 when we did a send mail
a lot of our users are getting a
disconnect and the entourage crashes and
burns leaves the outgoing message in the
outgoing box and we've only seen that
weighs entourage on the stalker so I
does corey i talked to me after the
conference we can go over those letters
that'd be great chanakya partner eh
version from apple enterprise consulting
two questions one for philip from
stalker last time i checked the the ldap
support in communicate pro was a
separate dealt out database do you guys
have any if you looked into integrating
it into opened all that I'm not aware of
any plans to integrated into openldap
but again it's one of those items
we can probably take this offline and
see what is necessary there since we
made some modifications to the ldap
integration within communicate from the
last year releases okay also just want
to say you guys are going to a child had
really happy with the product the other
question is from James from Korea verse
I mean I'm more familiar with
communicate pro and been very happy
product cario looked six looks really
really interesting one of the things I a
lot of my customers are looking at we
communicate is they're looking at
deploying the cluster solution if you
guys do you have anything like that are
you looking at doing any question we're
actually looking at supporting the X and
technology that Apple has been so great
to have some good sessions on here at
the conference we're gonna spend
hopefully a lot of time in the next few
months to support that so that people
can have their availability that they
need for the server and their peace of
mind but yeah it's right now you can do
simple clustering with offline server
sitting around on the side and and we're
trying to work with Apple to make that
satisfactory until we can support X act
completely okay thank you right now john
welch kansas city life um this is kind
of a request for microsoft working at a
company that we're actually looking at
moving away from mapi because we
discovered like a lot of people like the
requirements of it um make it a security
risk of rather high note and it's very
hard to deal with in firewalls in that
since webdav work silver well the web
one thing that I've noticed though with
a lot of exchange administrators it's
that they're kind of the odd parallel to
the apple store IP admin admin you knew
nothing about networking they don't know
anything about email they know a lot
about exchange um and so when you start
talking about non mapping clients they
lock up because you know it's almost
like the hands go over the ears and
unclean unclean if you guys could get
the exchange group to put out a white
paper to about working with entourage
that was authored by the exchange group
they expected from the mac bu you guys
write entourage they a lot of exchange
admins just see Mac view and go evil um
but something coming from the exchange
group saying no really it's okay it's
not going to crash and burn your server
it's a good thing to do would help a lot
of people on a lot yeah that's that's an
excellent suggestion we fought with the
exchanging on that thanks thank you for
the feedback on the back I have two
queries David Colville from k options
one is any sort of web access we've been
hitting real issues with arthur server
on from microsoft with authentication
and just getting the frosting working
now it's not really your particular
problem but obviously it just means that
for any webmail issues we get a lot of
problems with ISIL server within that
clients and my other question across the
board actually it's probably single
sign-on for kerberos support I no
stalkers talking about developing it in
there some of their betters I'm just
interested across the board if I get
sort of some feature requests or
statements on when you actually might
see some sort of support for that we
have a temporary support in our product
for both active directory and Apple open
directory perfect we'll be starting more
of it with the release of 42 and 50 and
we have it we have it in the first class
as well with the new module director
services supporting openldap thank you
thank you
Daniel Craig some amount of marketing my
question is for kirio opentext and
stalker because I'd rather host the
solution if you guys offer it you guys
talked about an email and calendaring
and all that functionality I'm looking
also do any of you guys provide document
management document collaboration the
ability for multiple offices to see st.
powerpoints say more document work on it
in one space instead of multiple
revisions being mailed around to each
other document versioning and tracking
is can be available it's an honor
roadmap and a future version but we do
have some facility at this time to do
the tracking you may want to talk to me
after the test it's also something that
we're looking at specific to documents
but as far as our public folder support
goes especially through our webmail you
can have a single storage place for
messages I can have any number of
documents accessible by any number of
appropriate clients with the
authorization so is the public folder or
personal shared folder that you don't
actually have to send a message once
it's in there the appropriate people can
access it from their web client and
access that actually supported in
outlook as well through the outlook
connector folder serving as well so that
way it can be shared between those
people that have appropriate access
controls we're also looking at with
windows messengers ability to pass up
control of an application for an open
file through the built-in functionality
of windows messenger okay thank you
thank you hi Andy espoo my consultant
from boston and i had an observation
directed towards microsoft and i think
everyone will probably agree with me as
the consultant i like to try to do my my
troubleshooting through the web first
just to avoid the queues and support and
i have to say that the support website
for MBU is absolutely unusable there was
virtually no information there and if
you go to try to search for support on
any of the Microsoft products you get a
little smattering of the mic of mac
stuff and then it shoots you off into
the general the general support
I and if you you can do a search on
Macintosh and you'll get something that
has nothing to do with Mac and trying to
find real hard information to support
problems it just winds up directing more
people towards phone support yeah
definitely hear that we are those our
website support document is something
that you as i said earlier like we're
publishing new documents were really
work we've heard a lot of feedback about
how hard is to find support there and
we're definitely looking to revamping
that by publishing more documents what
another great resource is a hosted by or
some of our customers it's called the MV
the entourage MVP back and if you just
search in your favorite search engine
entourage MVP and faq you're bound to
find the website and it has a lot of top
questions about exchange entourage
integration and you know hosted by our
customers so la vez you know laughs it
we are real world problem thank you
thank you back hi my name is Vinay
varghese I'm from Cornell University
Medical College my question to you is
about address books and basically
finding ways of publishing address books
both personal address books and
basically departmental address books in
and ideally in a in an ldap type
directory and this is something that
we've really been stumped on in finding
a product that is truly cross-platform
and available to Macs and PCs alike that
our users are able to use that is
authenticated and available both over
the web and through their email clients
do any of you folks support something
like this is it something that is is
readily available now their products
that you can recommend your products
currently suppose support it so the
requirement specifically is to have
one's personal address book stored in
the directory and also to have a
departmental address book that a group
of people can share so that and that we
can control the permissions through some
kind of apples and ideally we'd like to
store it in an LDAP
ok the our product lets you have public
folders to which you can assign public
contacts for example if you wanted to
create a company directory and we have a
built in ldap server so that can be
shared via ldap for example if you're
with your mail client imac but those
public folders also supported through
outlook client hand through webmail and
again individuals can also create their
own shared contacts as we call them
basically authorize someone with the
administrators help to access their own
clients again through those things
either the webmail or through outlook
yeah first class will include director
service in version 8 which will do all
or most of what you dream about so visit
our website or talk to me after the show
groupwise does that as well does on mac
OS 10 linux windows we use edirectory
and we can go across street cross land
and a bunch of things do you want to
talk afterwards you can do it so for RAM
for lotus lotus noses you know mean this
you bring up a good point a lot of our
customers have brought this issue to us
in regards to they want to be able to
support a single directory and they want
to be able to support now adapt
directory now based on our architecture
and the infrastructure that we need and
we do require what we call a notes ID
and the notes ID is stored in the domino
directory of the primary directory for
those users whether they're coming in
over the web or coming in through and
our protocol and our PC to the domino
server and we obviously support ldap
coming into the web for all of our users
and but it's something we are looking
into and it's not something we can
commit to over the next 12 months but it
has been a big request to be able to say
that we want to be a restorative
information in the central enterprise
directory so regardless of what platform
it is if it's coming in over windows
that is coming in over the mac and they
want to be able to maintain that in a
single directory so a lot of our
customers have requested this we are
looking into it we don't have any
timeframe or commitment yes on what will
be able to do that specifically for the
rich client
so a lot of the requirement to describe
I think can be solved by exchanging as
we discussed before exchange you can be
accessed by a mac and a pc i think we
also exchanged also it closes the
informations to ldap so that sounds like
a big eyes meet your needs as well I'd
be happy to take that offline for the
address books that are created in
web-based email as well through outlook
exam a pic connector those can be shared
across the entire system or between
various locations the ldap server
built-in Tamina gamepro can also contain
address book information that would be
accessible via ldap searches or via the
webmail interface as well thank you
thank you question for Microsoft the end
what is your solution for integrating
with enterprise or sorry exchange
instant messaging servers at this time
there's currently no integration with
exchange in messaging services but
that's something we've recently heard a
lot about officials and so it something
work investigating for future okay thank
you on the back yeah Alan Sampson
Commission's but again quick question
phad and wine I'm meeting maker here to
do the best collaborative you know can
during system your point another that we
use it easy yep thank you hi good
morning Jess freak home vertex
pharmaceuticals question for the
gentleman from Lotus we are looking to
implement a corporate instant messaging
solutions obviously we're looking at the
same time I can see from the from the
presentation here that there's long-term
goals for that I'm wondering if you
could comment on what if anything we
could get in the next 12 months sure so
if you if you notice the slides that JD
presented at the beginning of this
presentation we had a list of them what
we call our extended product so we
looked at Dom das we looked at Lotus
name
and and we put a time frame and we're
committing to this time frame to be able
to give you this solution within the six
five four and the 70 time frame which is
going to be the first half of next year
so for the mac users who are running the
Lotus Notes client and they're looking
for I am and capabilities will be able
to provide that in the first half of
next year okay that will be a separate a
cut like a standalone application it
will not be an integration like we have
within the notes clients on windows
today it will be a separate and very
similar to what you see right now the
same time connect climbs and which is
separate but it won't be integration
within the inbox Thank You max Canada
Alexander from carrier technologies
actually I have a question for Microsoft
you know with the msdn we as IT and we
as developers can get all of the windows
software that we need to evaluate for
deploying in our enterprise and for
developing our software except for the
maxi you software is there any plans or
is there any reason that the software
isn't part of them isn't part of the
msdn or is there any plans to have a
similar project or product that we can
subscribe to now that's that's great
question and to be honest I actually
don't know most of the PDM look pointed
out all the software on the msdn stuff
is a or for Windows involved that's not
really useful for my mac yeah yeah well
which changes really don't get your
answer for that great that would be
great thank you okay thank you very much
for attending and have a great friday
[Applause]